{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg1251\uc1\adeff0\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1049\deflangfe1049{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset204\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f36\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial CYR;}{\f43\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}
{\f41\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f44\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f45\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f46\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f47\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f48\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f49\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f403\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial CYR;}
{\f401\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CYR CE;}{\f404\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial CYR Greek;}{\f405\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial CYR Tur;}{\f406\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial CYR (Hebrew);}
{\f407\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial CYR (Arabic);}{\f408\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial CYR Baltic;}{\f409\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial CYR (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch \af0\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 
\additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch \af0\afs20 \ltrch \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}
{\*\rsidtbl \rsid5055773}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info{\author HeliX}{\operator HeliX}{\creatim\yr2008\mo10\dy17\hr11\min24}{\revtim\yr2008\mo10\dy17\hr11\min25}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords803}{\nofchars4578}
{\nofcharsws5371}{\vern24689}}\margl1701\margr850\margt1134\margb1134\ltrsect \deftab708\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0
\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot5055773 \fet0\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri3235\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin3235\lin0\itap0 \rtlch \af0\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch \fs24\lang1049\langfe1049\cgrid\langnp1049\langfenp1049 {\rtlch \ab\af36\afs16 
\ltrch \b\f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773\charrsid5055773 FASTREPORT\'ae 4.0 VCL
\par }{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch \f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773\charrsid5055773 
\par ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
\par 
\par }{\rtlch \ab\af36\afs16 \ltrch \b\f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773\charrsid5055773 TABLE OF CONTENTS
\par }{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch \f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773\charrsid5055773 
\par 1. Introduction
\par 2. New FastReport 4 features
\par 3. Capabilities
\par 
\par ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
\par 
\par }{\rtlch \ab\af36\afs16 \ltrch \b\f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773\charrsid5055773 1. INTRODUCTION
\par }{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch \f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773\charrsid5055773 
\par FastReport\'ae 4.0 VCL is an add-on component that allows your application to generate 
\par reports quickly and efficiently. 
\par FastReport\'ae provides all the necessary tools to develop reports, including a visual 
\par report designer, a reporting core, and a preview window. It can be used in the 
\par Borland\'ae Delphi 4-2006, Borland\'ae C++Builder 4-2006, Turbo Delphi/C++Builder,
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri3235\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin3235\lin0\itap0\pararsid5055773 {\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch \f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773\charrsid5055773 CodeGear\'ae Delphi 2007}{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch 
\f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773 , CodeGear\'ae C++Builder}{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch \f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773\charrsid5055773  2007}{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch 
\f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773 ,}{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch \f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773\charrsid5055773  CodeGear\'ae Delphi 2009 }{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch 
\f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773\charrsid5055773  }{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch \f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773 
\par }{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch \f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773\charrsid5055773 and CodeGear\'ae }{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch \f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773 C++Builder}{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch 
\f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773\charrsid5055773  2009 environments.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri3235\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin3235\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch \f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773\charrsid5055773 
\par ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
\par 
\par }{\rtlch \ab\af36\afs16 \ltrch \b\f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773\charrsid5055773 2. NEW FASTREPORT 4 FEATURES
\par }{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch \f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773\charrsid5055773 
\par Report Designer:
\par - new XP-style interface
\par - the "Data" tab with all report datasets
\par - ability to draw diagrams in the "Data" tab
\par - code completion (Ctrl+Space)
\par - breakpoints
\par - watches
\par - report templates
\par - local guidelines (appears when you move or resize an object)
\par - ability to work in non-modal mode, mdi child mode
\par 
\par Report Preview:
\par - thumbnails
\par 
\par Print:
\par - split a big page to several small pages
\par - print several small pages on one big
\par - print a page on a specified sheet (with scale)
\par - duplex handling from print dialogue
\par - print copy name on each printed copy (for example, "First copy", "Second copy")
\par 
\par Report Core:
\par - "endless page" mode
\par - images handling, increased speed
\par - the "Reset page numbers" mode for groups
\par - reports crypting (Rijndael algorithm)
\par - report inheritance (both file-based and dfm-based)
\par - drill-down groups
\par - frxGlobalVariables object
\par - "cross-tab" object enhancements:
\par   - improved cells appearance
\par   - cross elements visible in the designer
\par   - fill corner (ShowCorner property)
\par   - side-by-side crosstabs (NextCross property)
\par   - join cells with the same value (JoinEqualCells property)
\par   - join the same string values in a cell (AllowDuplicates property)
\par   - ability to put an external object inside cross-tab
\par   - AddWidth, AddHeight properties to increase width&height of the cell
\par   - AutoSize property, ability to resize cells manually
\par - line object can have arrows
\par - added TfrxPictureView.FileLink property (can contain variable or a file name)
\par - separate settings for each frame line (properties Frame.LeftLine,
\par TopLine, RightLine, BottomLine can be set in the object inspector)
\par - PNG images support (uncomment \{$DEFINE PNG\} in the frx.inc file)
\par - Open Document Format for Office Applications (OASIS) exports, spreadsheet (ods) 
\par and text (odt)
\par 
\par Enterprise components:
\par - Users/Groups security support
\par - Templates support
\par - Dynamically refresh of configuration, users/groups
\par 
\par ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
\par 
\par }{\rtlch \ab\af36\afs16 \ltrch \b\f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773\charrsid5055773 3. CAPABILITIES
\par }{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch \f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1049\langnp1033\insrsid5055773\charrsid5055773 
\par - Band-oriented report generator.
\par - Fast, compact and flexible code allows you to extend FastReport functionality.
\par   No additional DLLs needed.
\par - Built-in powerful and easy-to-use designer (also available in run-time).
\par - Full WYSIWYG
\par - Set of most useful components: Text, Line, Diagonal line, Picture, Shape,  OLE, \line RichText, Chart, Barcode. You can also write your own components.
\par - Ability to export your reports to other formats (such as TXT, RTF, HTML,  PDF, XLS, \line XML, JPG, BMP, TIFF). 
\par - Dot matrix reports. 
\par 
\par - Built-in language allows you write code without programming in Delphi. 
\par   It allows you to create reports that can't be created in other tools. 
\par -  Various fill types, shadow.
\par - Script editor with syntax highligt.
\par - One script in the report (like an unit in the Delphi). 
\par - Dramatically increased performance. 
\par - Strict type checking. 
\par - Multi-language architecture allows you to use many script languages (Pascal,   C++, 
\par Basic, Java). 
\par - Access to any object inside your application (in case you've allowed this).  Standard \line libraries to access to base classes, controls and forms. Easily  expandable library \line architecture. 
\par - Debugger.
\par 
\par - Report preview with "Search text" and "Edit" functions.
\par - Text rotation 0..360 degrees.
\par - Paragraph gap. 
\par - Memo object supports simple html-tags (font color, b, i, u, sub, sup). 
\par - Styles. 
\par - Text flow. 
\par - URLs, Anchors 
\par - Zooming in designer. 
\par - In-place editing. 
\par - Rulers, guides. 
\par - Grid: mm, inches, pixels. 
\par - Wizard for base type reports. 
\par - Copy objects to Windows clipboard. 
\par - Full Undo/Redo.
\par 
\par - reports can contain dialogue forms that you can use to ask  parameters before \line prepare a report. You can have as many dialogs as you need. FastReport uses the \line same designer for dialogs and have set of standard dialog controls like Button, 
Edit, \line CheckBox and other.
\par - Storing reports in XML format, compressed XML format (compatible with GZip) also \line available.
\par - Set of DB engines for FastReport allow you to create table/query/database \line components in run-time. Your reports can be completely independent of your  \line application!
\par - You can use FastReport in international applications.
\par - Full Bi-directional text output.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch \f36\fs16\insrsid5055773 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
\par 
\par }{\rtlch \ab\af36\afs16 \ltrch \b\f36\fs16\insrsid5055773 Fast Reports Inc. 
\par }{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch \f36\fs16\insrsid5055773 
\par e-mail:    \tab }{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch \f36\fs16\ul\cf2\insrsid5055773 <info@fast-report.com>}{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch \f36\fs16\insrsid5055773 
\par web site:  }{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch \f36\fs16\ul\cf2\insrsid5055773 <http://www.fast-report.com>}{\rtlch \af36\afs16 \ltrch \f36\fs16\insrsid5055773 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch \ab\af36\afs16 \ltrch \b\f36\fs16\insrsid5055773 
\par }}